---
layyout: post
title: DNS, DHCP, Profinet. Day 9 
published: true
---

#### Profinet I/O devices 

##### Router addresses:  

A PROFINET IO controller uses the DCP.set service to issue the PROFINET IO device 
IP address with the address resolution to the appropriate PROFINET IO device.

There are two distinct cases:

##### A router is available in the subnet:  

The PROFINET IO device receives the PROFINET IO device IP address and the IP address 
of the router (Router IP address <> PROFINET IO device IP address). If the PROFINET IO device 
is itself the router, the PROFINET IO device IP address and the router IP address are identical.


##### No router is available in the subnet  

The PROFINET IO device receives the PROFINET IO device IP address via the DCP.set service.
The router is assigned the IP address 0.0.0.0.

##### DHCP addressing:  

The Device Access Point (DAP) supports the "Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol" 
for DHCP addressing for allocating the IP address.  

A PROFINET IO device always supports at least the address resolution with DCP. 
This means that you can carry out the address resolution with every PROFINET IO field device 
without additional software. Company-specific options or the path via DHCP can also be supported.  

If you also want DHCP supported as well as DCP, then you have to state the following in the GSD file:  

	ExtendedAddressAssignmentSupported = true  
	AddressAssignment = 'DCP, DHCP'  

The appropriate stack in the PROFINET IO device must then contain a DHCP program package on user level. 
DHCP is not a component of the Siemens PROFINET IO stack that is included in the delivery package 
of the Development Kit ERTEC 200/400 PN IO.  

source: How do you address PROFINET IO devices?  
https://support.industry.siemens.com/cs/document/29451912/how-do-you-address-profinet-io-devices-?dti=0&lc=en-ZA



